README.md, before:

# BFP2 Dev board 1 bring up firmware

This is a Zephyr "Workspace"[^1] project based on [example-application]. It is forked from a tag of a point release to ensure reliable builds. ( revision: v4.1.0 in west.yml)

[example-application]: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/example-application
[^1]: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/develop/application/index.html#zephyr-workspace-app

## Building and running the application
This project is intended to be built on a modern linux system. Some support has been added for windows [here](##Building and running on Windows). 

# Local Build
## Install prerequisites
```shell
sudo dnf install -y wget2-2.1.0 wget2-wget-2.1.0 git-2.46.0 cmake-3.28.2 ninja-build-1.12.1 xz-5.4.6 python3-devel-3.12.4 perl-Digest-SHA-1:6.04 protobuf-compiler-3.19.6
pip install --no-cache-dir wget==3.2 filehash==0.2.dev1 west==1.2.0 pyelftools==0.30 grpcio-tools==1.62.0 protobuf==4.25.3
# Later versions will probably work fine. These are the versions used in CI build.
```

## Get source, dependencies and toolchain

Note that the repository is not cloned directly. Instead, the zephyr tool west is used to manage dependencies.
```shell
west init -m git@github.com:Stowood/devboard1-bringup-zephyr.git --mr main db1-bringup
cd db1-bringup
west update
west setup-toolchain
```

### Building and running

To build, run the following command:

```shell
cd db1-bringup.git/
cd app/
./build.sh
./flash.sh
```

--------------------------------------------------------

### Toolchain
The `setup-toolchain` command used above is a custom west extension that downloads and verifies the exact version of the toolchain.

The toolchain is passed to the build by exporting ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR in the build.sh script

If the correct version of the SDK is present in  /opt/zephyr-sdk/ the script will link to that instead of downloading it.

### More advanced building
The standard west commands are available as with any other zephyr/ncs build. Including:
```shell
# To use some of these, you will need need to export ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR eg:
export ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR=../../toolchain/tc/
# or 
export ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR=/opt/zephyr-sdk/zephyr-sdk-0.17.1-rc1/
west build -b frdm_mcxn947/mcxn947/cpu0
west flash --runner=jlink

west boards
west debug
west build -t menuconfig
```


## Building and running on Windows

TODO: Add pre-requisites for windows

```bash
mkdir db1-windows-bringup
cd db1-windows-bringup
git clone git@github.com:Stowood/devboard1-bringup-zephyr.git
python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r devboard1-bringup-zephyr/requirements.txt
cd devboard1-bringup-zephyr
west init -l .
west update
west windows-setup-toolchain
cd app
python ..\scripts\build.py
# To flash:
python ..\scripts\build.py -f

```

### Testing TBC

```shell
west twister -T tests --integration
```

Commit message:

Clarify the lack of windows prerequisites

README.md, after:

# BFP2 Dev board 1 bring up firmware

This is a Zephyr "Workspace"[^1] project based on [example-application]. It is forked from a tag of a point release to ensure reliable builds. ( revision: v4.1.0 in west.yml)

[example-application]: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/example-application
[^1]: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/develop/application/index.html#zephyr-workspace-app

## Building and running the application
This project is intended to be built on a modern linux system. Some support has been added for windows [here](##Building and running on Windows). 

# Local Build
## Install prerequisites
```shell
sudo dnf install -y wget2-2.1.0 wget2-wget-2.1.0 git-2.46.0 cmake-3.28.2 ninja-build-1.12.1 xz-5.4.6 python3-devel-3.12.4 perl-Digest-SHA-1:6.04 protobuf-compiler-3.19.6
pip install --no-cache-dir wget==3.2 filehash==0.2.dev1 west==1.2.0 pyelftools==0.30 grpcio-tools==1.62.0 protobuf==4.25.3
# Later versions will probably work fine. These are the versions used in CI build.
```

## Get source, dependencies and toolchain

Note that the repository is not cloned directly. Instead, the zephyr tool west is used to manage dependencies.
```shell
west init -m git@github.com:Stowood/devboard1-bringup-zephyr.git --mr main db1-bringup
cd db1-bringup
west update
west setup-toolchain
```

### Building and running

To build, run the following command:

```shell
cd db1-bringup.git/
cd app/
./build.sh
./flash.sh
```

--------------------------------------------------------

### Toolchain
The `setup-toolchain` command used above is a custom west extension that downloads and verifies the exact version of the toolchain.

The toolchain is passed to the build by exporting ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR in the build.sh script

If the correct version of the SDK is present in  /opt/zephyr-sdk/ the script will link to that instead of downloading it.

### More advanced building
The standard west commands are available as with any other zephyr/ncs build. Including:
```shell
# To use some of these, you will need need to export ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR eg:
export ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR=../../toolchain/tc/
# or 
export ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR=/opt/zephyr-sdk/zephyr-sdk-0.17.1-rc1/
west build -b frdm_mcxn947/mcxn947/cpu0
west flash --runner=jlink

west boards
west debug
west build -t menuconfig
```


## Building and running on Windows

### Prerequisites
There are some prerequisites for building on Windows. They were not captured during initial development.
If this is ever used again. They should be captured the next time this is built on a clean Windows machine. 

It is probably just to install python.

```bash
mkdir db1-windows-bringup
cd db1-windows-bringup
git clone git@github.com:Stowood/devboard1-bringup-zephyr.git
python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r devboard1-bringup-zephyr/requirements.txt
cd devboard1-bringup-zephyr
west init -l .
west update
west windows-setup-toolchain
cd app
python ..\scripts\build.py
# To flash:
python ..\scripts\build.py -f

```

### Testing TBC

```shell
west twister -T tests --integration
```
